The Project Gutenberg EBook of Begin to Knit, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Begin to Knit
       American Thread Co. Star Book No. 201

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: January 5, 2020 [EBook #61105]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEGIN TO KNIT ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                 AMERICAN THREAD CO. STAR BOOK No. 201    29¢




                                 BEGINTOKNIT


 ALL THE BASIC STITCHES • EASY NOVELTY STITCHES • QUICK THINGS TO MAKE

    [Illustration: SO!]

    [Illustration: YOU WANT TO KNIT?]

Well, why not when it’s so easy with DAWN yarns and this easy-to-follow
instruction book. You’ll find plain and fancy stitches and difficult
looking but oh, so easy to knit designs. And when these designs are
knitted with the soft pastels or bright, gay colors of DAWN Yarns ...
Zowie, you’re in!

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: american thread
    90 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10016]

PRINTED IN U.S.A.




                       BEGIN TO KNIT    CONTENTS


                                   Ⓐ
  Abbreviations                                                        4
  Afghan                                                              16


                                   Ⓑ
  Baby Set                                                            24
  Basic Needs                                                          5
  Bind Off                                                            11
  Blocking & Finishing                                                15
  Bobbins                                                              6
  Buttonholes                                                         12


                                   Ⓒ
  Casting On                                                           7
  Changing Colors                                                     13
  Crochet (Slip st & single crochet)                                  30


                                   Ⓓ
  Decrease                                                             9
  Duplicate stitch                                                    13


                                   Ⓕ
  Fancy Stitches                                                      18


                                   Ⓖ
  Garter Stitch                                                        8
  Gauge                                                                6


                                   Ⓗ
  Holders                                                              6


                                   Ⓘ
  Increase                                                            10


                                   Ⓚ
  Knit                                                                 8


                                   Ⓛ
  Left Hand Knitting                                                   5
  Lengthen                                                            31


                                   Ⓜ
  Marker                                                               6
  Mittens                                                             22
  Multiple of stitches                                                 6


                                   Ⓝ
  Needle Types                                                         6


                                   Ⓟ
  Picking Up Stitches                                                 12
  Poncho                                                              33
  P.S.S.O.                                                            10
  Purl                                                                 8


                                   Ⓡ
  Raglan sweater                                                      28
  Ribbing                                                              9


                                   Ⓢ
  Shell                                                               32
  Shorten                                                             31
  Size Information                                                    14
  Slip A Stitch                                                       11
  Slipovers                                                       28, 34
  Socks                                                               20
  Stockinette stitch                                                   9


                                   Ⓦ
  Washing                                                             15
  Weaving Toe                                                         13
  Weaving Seams                                                       15
  Winding Wool                                                         5


                                   Ⓨ
  Yarn Over                                                           10
  Yarns                                                                5

    [Illustration: TALK OF THE TRADE]

                               ABBREVIATIONS

  K           Knit
  P           Purl
  St(s)       Stitch(es)
  YO          Yarn Over
  Dec.        Decrease
  Inc.        Increase
  Tog.        Together
  Rnd.        Round
  P.s.s.o.    Pass slip st over st
  dpn         Double pointed needle
  K-O         Do not work st, row or round
  Beg.        Beginning
  Bet.        Between
  *           an asterisk. This indicates that the instructions following
              are to be repeated across row or for the number of stitches
              or times specified.

    [Illustration: {knitters}]




                      BASIC NEEDS AND KNOW HOW....


YARNS: Yarns vary in size, twist and texture. Use the “Dawn” Yarn
indicated in the directions as only an experienced expert knitter knows
how to allow for the difference when a substitution is made. It is also
very important to purchase all the yarn needed at one time as different
dye lots frequently have different shades of color.

When you purchase your yarn always check the dye lot number to make
certain they are all the same. It is much wiser to purchase a little
extra yarn than to try and match the dye lot after your garment is
finished. Though the color may look the same in the skein more often
than not the difference will be seen in the finished work. The “ply” of
yarn means the number of strands twisted together. This can be seen by
taking the end of the yarn and untwisting.


                        FUNDAMENTALS & SOME TIPS

Learn the basic stitches. There are only three: Knit, Purl and slip. All
the others are produced by variations and in combination with yarn
overs. See page 10.

Practice first with heavy yarn and thick needles. Study the stitch and
the position it takes on the needle. Follow arrows in illustration.
Learn to recognize when it is wrong. Watch the yarn to see where each
loop of the stitch begins and ends. If you lay your knitting aside for a
few days or longer, always rip back a few rows before starting again.
This will prevent an uneven row. See page 12 for ripping back.

Parentheses in our instructions are used for an explanation of a st, a
certain section of a garment, or change of sts for change of size. A ROW
is once across the needle. A RIDGE is 2 rows, back and forth. WORK EVEN,
means to continue in pattern st keeping the continuity of the design.

Always MEASURE straight up and down unless otherwise stated.


                              WINDING WOOL

Winding the wool correctly is important. Never wind wool tightly as this
stretches it. Wind several strands around fingers, slip these from
fingers. Over these strands, in opposite direction, wind a few more
strands wrapping yarn around fingers and ball. Continue in this manner,
always winding over fingers and in opposite direction from last winding.

LEFT HAND KNITTING: Follow the instructions but change your copy to read
left hand where it says “right hand” and vice versa. Use a mirror to
study diagrams and charts. This will reverse the image for you.

JOINING YARNS ... If possible, join the new yarn with a knot at the
beginning of a row. If this cannot be done, work next st with new yarn
leaving a 4 inch length. Work a few sts, tie the ends firmly and with a
yarn needle weave ends into work.

MARKER ... This term is used whenever it is important that a certain
point is to be marked. Example: increase, decrease, beginning of a row
or round, buttonholes, center st, etc. To make a marker of yarn, use a
different color; make a slip knot leaving ends about 2 inches in length.
Place on needle as directed. Slip marker off one needle to the other
needle in each successive round.

MULTIPLE OF STS ... This term is used generally at beginning of
directions and means that a certain multiple of sts is necessary to work
one pattern. Example: multiple of 4 sts would mean any number divisible
by 4 or 12, 16, 24 sts, etc. A multiple of 4 plus 2 would be 14, 18, 26
sts, etc., or any number that has 2 more sts after dividing by 4.


                              NEEDLE TYPES

STRAIGHT NEEDLES ... are used when working back and forth in rows. They
come in lengths of 10, 12, and 14 inches and sizes O-1-2-3, etc. The
larger the number, the thicker the needle.

DOUBLE POINTED NEEDLES ... come in sets of 4 or 5. They are used for
socks, mittens and any articles made in rounds.

CIRCULAR NEEDLES ... are used in making skirts, or parts of garments
when a seam is not desired; also in completing a large doily or a round
tablecloth.

Directions give the size and type needle required and it is not
advisable to change the size unless it is necessary in order to obtain
the correct gauge.

CABLE NEEDLES ... are short with a bend in the center to hold sts from
slipping off. They are available in thin or thick size for the different
yarns. A short double pointed needle may also be used. It is a good idea
after placing sts on the straight needle to be used for cable to stick
needle into garment slightly, this will prevent sts from slipping off
needle.

STITCH HOLDERS ... are used to hold sts to be used later. Example: sts
at back of neck or when all sts are cast on and worked to armholes, then
divided for front and back. The stitch holders can be purchased or a
safety pin or length of yarn may be used.

STITCH COUNTERS ... usually placed on knitting needles. They have a dial
and after working a row, turn the dial to the next number.

BOBBINS ... usually made of plastic to hold small amounts of yarn for
use in making argyle socks or the Fair Isle, Scandinavian or Ski
patterns.

GAUGE ... The stitch gauge which appears at the beginning of all
instructions is most important to the size and fit of your garment.
Before starting, make a sample swatch of the pattern stitch with the
needles and yarn specified. If you have MORE sts than gauge use LARGER
needles. If you have LESS sts than gauge use SMALLER needles. Check your
gauge as you progress to assure a perfectly sized garment, Ill. No. 1.

    [Illustration: 1]


                               CASTING ON

Allow about ½ inch for each st for fine yarn and 1 inch for each st for
heavy yarn. Make a slip knot on needle, Ill. No. 2. * Hold needle in
right hand, hold both lengths of yarn in left hand (see arrows) having
short end of yarn under and to outside of thumb and main length of yarn
under and to outside of forefinger, Ill. No. 3. Insert needle through
loop formed on thumb, pick up yarn on forefinger and draw through loop,
Ill. No. 4, let loop drop from thumb and tighten st on right needle with
thumb. Repeat from * leaving about ¼ inch between sts until required
number of sts have been cast on, Ill. No. 5.

    [Illustration: 2]

    [Illustration: 3]

    [Illustration: 4]

    [Illustration: 5]


                             PLAIN KNITTING

Hold needle containing stitches in left hand. Follow arrows. * With yarn
in back of work, insert free needle from left to right in front of st,
yarn under and over point of needle and draw through st, slip stitch
just worked from left needle. Retain new stitch on right needle. Repeat
from * until all stitches are on right needle. 2nd Row and Succeeding
Rows: Place the needle holding stitches in left hand with free needle in
right hand. Insert free needle in 1st stitch and complete same as 1st
row.

    [Illustration: 6]

    [Illustration: 7]

    [Illustration: 8]

    [Illustration: 9]


                             GARTER STITCH

K each st, K each row.

    [Illustration: 10]


                                PURLING

Hold work same as for Knitting, but hold yarn to front of work. Follow
arrows. * Insert needle from right to left in front of st, yarn around
and in back of point of needle, draw through st having new stitch on
right needle, slip stitch off left needle. Repeat from * until all
stitches are on right needle.

    [Illustration: 11]

    [Illustration: 12]

    [Illustration: 13]


                           STOCKINETTE STITCH

Knit 1 row, Purl 1 row when working with 2 needles. K each row when
working with a circular needle or on 3 or 4 double pointed needles.

    [Illustration: 14 Knit Side]

    [Illustration: 15 Purl Side]


                                RIBBING

Ribbing consists of an alternate number of Knit and Purl stitches. In
Knit 2, Purl 2 ribbing the number of stitches cast on is usually
divisible by 4. 1st ROW: K 2, P 2 across row. In the next row again
start with K 2. In ribbing, the smooth sts are knitted, the sts with
rough side are purled. In binding off ribbing Knit the Knit sts and Purl
the Purl stitches.

    [Illustration: 16]


                         TO DECREASE OR NARROW

In Knitting, Knit 2 sts together (Ill. No. 17), in Purling, Purl 2 sts
together.

    [Illustration: 17]


                    PASS SLIP STITCH OVER (P.S.S.O.)

(another method of decreasing).... In knitting instructions p.s.s.o.
means to slip 1 st, K (or P) next st, then pass the slip st over the K
(or P) st by inserting left needle into slip st on right needle and
passing over the K st on right needle. Follow arrows in illustrations.

    [Illustration: 18]

    [Illustration: 19]

    [Illustration: 20]

    [Illustration: 21]


                              TO INCREASE

Knit or Purl 1 st (as directions call for), but do not slip stitch from
left needle (Ill. No. 22 & 23). Knit or Purl into back of same st, then
slip stitch off needle (Ill. No. 24).

Illustration shows a Knit increase.

    [Illustration: 22]

    [Illustration: 23]

    [Illustration: 24]


                             YARN OVER....

Unless otherwise instructed when knitting, bring yarn forward and over
right needle to back, K next st. When Purling bring yarn over and under
right needle and to front, P next st. The yarn over forms a loop on
needle which is worked as a stitch, it is used usually for lacy patterns
and beadings.

    [Illustration: 25 Knit]

    [Illustration: 26 Purl]


                                BIND OFF

Do not bind off too tightly.

Knitting: K 2 sts, * pass the 1st stitch over the 2nd stitch: follow
arrows (Ill. 27, 28, 29), K next st, repeat from * until one stitch
remains on right needle, cut yarn and draw through last st.

PURLING: P 2 sts, * pass 1st stitch over 2nd stitch, P next st, repeat
from * until one stitch remains on right needle, cut yarn and draw
through last st. Not illustrated.

IN PATTERN: Either Knit or Purl st to be bound off as it would have been
worked in corresponding row of pattern, then bind off for knitting or
purling whichever pattern calls for. Not illustrated.

    [Illustration: 27]

    [Illustration: 28]

    [Illustration: 29]


                          TO SLIP A STITCH....

Slip one st from left needle to right needle without knitting or purling
inserting the right needle in the st as if to Knit unless otherwise
directed. When slipping the stitch leave yarn to the wrong side unless
directed otherwise.


                PICKING UP STITCHES .... DROPPED ST ...

In stockinette stitch pick up stitch on right side of work. Using a
crochet hook, insert hook in dropped st, draw yarn to row above through
loop forming a new loop. Continue in this manner until you reach the row
being worked being careful not to twist the sts. (Ill. No. 30). PURL sts
are picked up by inserting crochet hook through dropped st from in back
of sts. (Ill. No. 31). In GARTER STITCH alternate the two movements.
RIPPING BACK: Unravel work to within the last row of point desired. Rip
the last row a stitch at a time placing each stitch on a free needle,
preferably a finer double pointed needle, then place these sts back on
size needle you are using. Continue knitting as directed.

    [Illustration: 30]

    [Illustration: 31]


                        PICKING UP STITCHES ...

around neck and armholes is usually done with smaller needles. Hold the
work with right side toward you and work from right to left. Insert
right needle into the first st from edge, pick up stitches (Ill. No.
32). When picking up stitches on an irregular edge be sure to pick up a
stitch in every row. Always work with the right side toward you unless
otherwise directed.

    [Illustration: 32]


                              BUTTONHOLES

Work to the point specified. Bind off three or more stitches according
to directions and work to end of row. In the following row work to the
bound off sts and cast on the same number of stitches bound off in
previous row and complete row. (Ill. No. 33 and 34).

    [Illustration: 33]

    [Illustration: 34]


                              WEAVING TOE

Cut yarn leaving about a 14 inch length, thread this into a darning
needle, * insert needle through first st of first needle as if knitting
and slip stitch off needle, pass through next stitch as if purling and
leave stitch on needle, draw yarn through first st of back needle as if
purling and slip stitch off needle, draw yarn through next stitch of
back needle as if knitting and leave stitch on needle, repeat from *
until all stitches have been worked, fasten neatly.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]


                            DUPLICATE STITCH

This is the stitch used most often for embroidering a desired motif on a
knitted article. It is worked by: * bringing needle through center of
stitch from the wrong side to right side of work—see ill. A. Following
the outline of the knit stitch above, draw the yarn across the back of
the two strands of this stitch—see ill. A and B—return needle to the
center of the same stitch—see ill. B—and draw yarn through. Repeat from
* starting next stitch by bringing needle through center of stitch to be
duplicated—see ill. C.

    [Illustration: ILL. A]

    [Illustration: ILL. B]

    [Illustration: ILL. C]


                          CHANGING COLORS....

At the end of a row, tie in new color and continue in pattern. In
Scandinavian, Fair Isle or Ski patterns the additional colors are
carried on the wrong side of work. Designs of this type are usually
worked from a chart with a color code. When changing colors always twist
yarns around each other to prevent a hole. If color is carried over more
than 4 sts, the carried color should be twisted around the yarn that is
being worked to prevent loose lengths on wrong side. Twist the yarn in
following manner; pick up carried color, before knitting st in usual
manner twist over yarn that is carried. Cut colors only when you are
through with that color leaving about a 4 or 5 inch length to be
fastened later with a yarn sewing needle. If designs to be worked are
separated or only 1 design is worked in a corner of garment, use bobbins
(see page 6) to work design.


                          GENERAL INFORMATION

Directions are given for Ladies small (size 12, Bust 32). Changes for
Ladies’ Medium (Size 14, Bust 34) and Large (Size 16, Bust 36) are given
in parentheses. Men’s small (Size and Chest 38), Medium (Size and Chest
40) and Large (Size and Chest 42) are given in bold face type.


                             CHANGING SIZES

NOTE: When working with pattern sts ADD or SUBTRACT the multiple of sts
or repeats necessary to work one inch of gauge for size desired.

LARGER: (1) For each size larger than given, ADD the number of sts
called for in GAUGE to make 1 inch to both back and front cast on sts.

(2) Continue to follow directions given to armhole shaping or desired
length to armhole. Bind off 2 sts more for each size larger. Work ¼ inch
more in length.

(3) SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 2 sts more each shoulder for each size
larger.

(4) SLEEVES: Add 2 sts more in cuff, then 2 sts more in last row of
ribbing. Bind off 2 sts more each side at underarm.

SMALLER: (1) For each size smaller than size given, SUBTRACT the number
of sts called for in GAUGE equal to 1 inch from both front and back cast
on sts.

(2) Continue to follow directions to armhole shaping or desired length
to armhole. Bind off 2 sts less for each size smaller. Work ¼ inch less
in length for each size smaller.

(3) SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 2 sts less for each size smaller.

(4) SLEEVES: Subtract 4 sts at cuff and bind off 2 sts less each side at
underarm.


                       CHILD’S or IN-BETWEEN SIZE

If child’s garment is desired or if you are not a regular size, work as
follows:

(1) Take chest or bust measure. Divide the figure in half (half is
front, half is back).

(2) Multiply this figure (the half of chest measure) by sts (or rows)
necessary to equal gauge.

(3) Follow directions given, working back and front to desired length to
underarm. Work armhole shaping in proportion to directions given. Work
armhole desired length. Shape shoulder proportionately to directions
being followed. Work sleeves in proportion to added or subtracted sts.

(4) Always have same number of rows on back and front of sweater. Work
same amount of rows for both sleeves.


                         BLOCKING AND FINISHING

Blocking is method used to shape a garment for a “professional look”.
Steps to follow:

1—Conceal all ends: run ends through several stitches on wrong side. If
yarn is heavy or bulky, split strand and run ends through several
stitches.

2—Determine whether garment is to be washed. If so, wash each section
separately by hand or machine wash garment according to specific
instructions on yarn label or commercial laundering product. Most
garments stretch larger when wet. Care, therefore, should be taken in
handling wet sections. Squeeze gently in the washing, DO NOT TWIST or
WRING. Rinse thoroughly. Place in turkish towel and squeeze out excess
moisture. Place on turkish towel to dry. If sections of garment appear
to be too big, adjust sections to measure by pushing sections into
slight puckers. Puckers will disappear when sections dry.

3—Always use the stitch gauge given as a guide for blocking.
Instructions are written for the average in any size, see page 14 for
our sizes. Any slight adjustment for individual size should be made in
the blocking.

4—After measurements have been determined, place the sections
individually and wrong side up on a well padded surface or table. It is
sometimes helpful to draw outline on brown paper or heavy tissue paper.
With rust proof pins, pin each section to measurement spacing pins about
½ inch apart.

5—Place a wet pressing cloth over a section. Using a rotary motion, hold
iron as close as possible to section allowing steam to penetrate, but DO
NOT at any time let iron rest on garment. Leave sections on pressing
table until thoroughly dry.... Do not hurry this process.

6—Always bear in mind that cables and rib patterns have a tendency to
pull in or shrink back. Each section should be blocked about 2 inches
more than desired measure, but should NEVER be pressed flat. Also some
patterns are especially designed for a textured effect. They too should
NEVER be pressed flat. Never press ribbing of cuffs, waistband or
neckline.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]

7—After all sections have been blocked garment is now ready for
finishing. Seams may be woven (see illustrations for weaving lengthwise
and crosswise seams) or back stitched (see illustration page 31), or by
sewing machine. To weave lengthwise seam: thread tapestry needle with a
single strand of matching yarn. Hold lengthwise edges together, right
sides up. Insert needle in center of st on right side, pass under two
rows and pull yarn through to right side. Insert needle in corresponding
row of left side, draw yarn through in same way. Work from side to side
in this manner taking care to keep seam elastic, matching rows,
patterns, stripes, etc. To weave a crosswise seam: hold crosswise edges
together. Starting at right edge, insert needle under two loops of
stitch on top section, insert needle down through center of next stitch
and up through center of next stitch on lower section. Continue in same
manner working alternately into top section and then into lower section
until seam is completed taking care to keep seam elastic and matching
patterns, etc.

b—Back stitching: place right sides of sections to be seamed together.
Pin, keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns. With tapestry
needle and matching yarn back stitch close to edge taking care not to
draw stitches too tight and keeping seam elastic.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]

c—Sewing machine: loosen tension on machine as you would for jersey or
any stretchy fabric. Place right sides together and pin. Baste seam
being careful not to draw stitches too tight. Remove pins. With matching
thread machine stitch seam. If yarn is bulky or fuzzy sew over tissue
paper. Remove paper when finished.

8—After garment is all assembled, carefully steam seams flat and even.


                             TO SHORTEN ...

(No hem desired). Determine length you desire; place a marker. Cut
through one st at side seam about 2 rows below marker. * Pick up cut end
and draw through several sts, cut this length close as possible to work.
This drawn length will tighten sts. After length has been cut straighten
edge taking care with loose sts. Place loose sts on free needle. Repeat
from * until row has been ripped and sts have been placed on needle.
With free needle bind off—or—attach yarn on P side, and with crochet
hook work a slip stitch (see page 30) in each st, turn. Work a slip
stitch in each st, cut yarn. If a hem is desired, allow for hem and
complete same as above. Turn hem to wrong side and tack in place.


                            TO LENGTHEN ...

(If a sufficient amount of same dye lot is available). Cut off cast on
edge in same manner as above. Pick up loose sts and knit to length
desired. If there is a ribbing on section to be lengthened, cut into the
row above the ribbing, then add to length. If you do not have enough of
same dye lot to work garment to length desired, we suggest working a
stripe of contrasting color and finishing with same color as garment.




               SNUG AND COMFORTABLE ... AND EASY TO MAKE


                             KNITTED AFGHAN
                          Size: 48 × 60 inches

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED 3-4 ounce skeins each
          Lime, Putty, Cinnamon, Potter Gold and Antique Gold.
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size H

GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch. Each block is a 12 inch square Approximate size:
48 × 60 inches.

SEED ST BLOCK: With Lime cast on 48 sts. 1st ROW: * K 1, P 1, repeat
from * across row. 2nd ROW: * P 1, K 1, repeat from * across row. Repeat
last 2 rows for seed st pattern. Work even in pattern until block
measures 12 inches from beg. Bind off. Work 1 more block in same manner.
Then work 2 blocks in each remaining color in same manner (10 blocks).

DOUBLE SEED ST BLOCK: With Lime cast on 48 sts. 1st and 2nd ROWS: * K 2,
P 2, repeat from * across row. 3rd and 4th ROWS: * P 2, K 2, repeat from
* across row. Repeat these 4 rows for double seed st pattern. Work even
until block measures 12 inches from beg. Bind off. Work 1 more block in
same manner. Then work 2 blocks in each remaining color in same manner.

FINISHING: With matching color work a row of s c all around each block
working 3 s c in each corner, 1 s c in each st across lower and top
edges (46 s c), 1 s c in every other row across sides (39 s c) (S c:
insert hook in st, pull yarn through, y o hook and pull through 2
loops). Weave 5 × 4 blocks tog through loop in back of each s c having
the seed st blocks in the 1st and 3rd rows and the double seed st blocks
in the 2nd and 4th rows arranging colors as follows: 1st ROW: Putty,
Cinnamon, Antique Gold, Potter Gold and Lime. 2nd ROW: Lime, Potter
Gold, Putty, Antique Gold and Cinnamon. 3rd ROW: Potter Gold, Antique
Gold, Lime, Cinnamon and Putty. 4th ROW: Cinnamon, Putty, Potter Gold,
Lime and Antique Gold.

FRINGE: Wind all colors over a 3 inch cardboard, cut one end. Matching
colors to blocks, take 2 strands, double in half and with crochet hook
loop through every other st all around afghan.

    [Illustration: {afghan}]




          FIVE FANCY STITCHES—LOOK HARD TO DO—BUT EASY TO MAKE


                             Pattern No. 1

Cast on 35 sts. 1st ROW: K across row. 2nd ROW: K 1, * yarn in back of
work, sl 1 as if to P, K 1, repeat from * across row. 3rd ROW: K 1, *
yarn to front, sl 1 as if to P, K 1, repeat from * across row. 4th ROW:
K across row. Repeat these 4 rows for pattern.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]


                             Pattern No. 2

Cast on 34 sts. 1st ROW: K 2, * Y O, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., Y O, K 3,
repeat from * across row ending with K last 2 sts. 2nd ROW: P across
row. 3rd ROW: K 5, * Y O, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., Y O, K 3, repeat from
* across row ending with Y O, K 2. 4th ROW: P across row. Repeat these 4
rows for pattern.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]


                             Pattern No. 3

Cast on 36 sts. 1st ROW: * K 2, P 2, repeat from * across row. Repeat
1st row 7 times. 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th ROWS: K across each row.
Repeat these 12 rows for pattern.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]


                             Pattern No. 4

Cast on 35 sts. 1st ROW: K 3, P 3, K 6, P 3, K 5, P 3, K 6, P 3, K 3.
2nd ROW: P 3, K 3, P 6, K 3, P 5, K 3, P 6, K 3, P 3. Repeat last 2 rows
3 times. 9th ROW: K 3, P 3, sl next 3 sts on d p n and hold in front of
work, K next 3 sts, K 3 sts from d p n (cable twist), P 3, K 5, P 3,
cable twist, P 3, K 3. 10th ROW: Repeat 2nd row. NEXT 8 ROWS: Repeat 1st
and 2nd rows 4 times. Repeat from 9th row for pattern.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]


                             Pattern No. 5

Cast on 36 sts. 1st and 3rd ROWS: K 4, * P 4, K 4, repeat from * 3
times. 2nd and 4th ROWS: P 4, * K 4, P 4, repeat from * 3 times. 5th and
7th ROWS: P 4, * K 4, P 4, repeat from * 3 times. 6th and 8th ROWS: K 4,
* P 4, K 4, repeat from * 3 times. Repeat these 8 rows 7 times.

    [Illustration: {unlabelled}]




                      PLAIN SOCKS FOR A GO-GO GUY


    [Illustration: {sock}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” NYLON or “DAWN” DE LUXE FINGERING YARN
  3 ounces Sand
  1 Set Double Pointed Knitting Needles No. 1 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH
          WILL RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.

GAUGE: 8 sts = 1 inch.

NOTE: For reinforcing toes (and heels) combine 1 strand of “Dawn” Nylon
Reinforcing Yarn, Article N-7 with yarn and knit per instructions.

Cast on 72 sts, divide sts on 3 needles (24 sts on each needle), join.
Place a marker at beginning of round. Work in ribbing of K 2, P 2 for 2½
inches. Change to stockinette st (K each round), work even until sock
measures 8 inches from beg. HEEL: At beg of round divide sts as follows:
K and sl next 18 sts on a needle, K and sl next 18 sts on another
needle. Working on remaining sts only K 1 row, P 1 row for 2½ inches
ending with a P row. START TO TURN HEEL: 1st ROW: K 20, sl 1, K 1, pass
sl st over K st (p.s.s.o.), K 1, turn. 2nd ROW: Sl 1, P 5, P 2 tog, P 1,
turn. 3rd ROW: Sl 1, K 6, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., K 1, turn. 4th ROW: Sl 1,
P 7, P 2 tog, P 1, turn. Continue in the above manner until all sts have
been worked ending with a P row. Divide these sts on 2 needles. K 10 sts
on needle, pick up and K 17 sts on right side of heel (1st needle), work
across 36 sts of instep (2nd needle), pick up and K 17 sts on left side
of heel, K remaining sts of heel to this needle (3rd needle). NEXT
ROUND: Work even, then dec every other round as follows: 1st needle: K
to within 3 sts of end of needle, K 2 tog, K 1; 2nd needle: K across,
3rd needle: K 1, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., K to end of round. Dec in same
manner until there are 72 sts on needles. Work even until foot measures
7½ inches or 2 inches less than desired length from center back of heel.
Decrease for Toe: 1st needle: K to within 3 sts of end of needle, K 2
tog, K 1; 2nd needle: K 1, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., work to within 3 sts of
end of same needle, K 2 tog, K 1; 3rd needle: K 1, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o.,
work to end of round. K 1 round even. Repeat these 2 rounds until 16 sts
remain (8 sts on instep needle and 4 sts on each back needle). Sl sts of
back needles to one needle. Weave sts together following directions on
page 13.


                           MEN’S SHORT SOCKS

Follow directions for plain socks working only 2 inches of ribbing and 4
inches of stockinette st before starting heel.

    [Illustration: {knitter}]




                   DOLLS AND GUYS TWO NEEDLE MITTENS


    [Illustration: {mitten}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED 2 Ounces Ladies Small,
          3 Ounces (all remaining sizes) Canary.
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 5 and No. 7 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL
          RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW:

GAUGE for No. 7 Needles: 5 sts = 1 inch; 7 rows = 1 inch.

Directions are given for ladies small size. Changes for medium and large
sizes are given in parentheses. Men’s sizes given in bold face type.

LEFT MITTEN: With No. 5 needles cast on 28 (32, 36) 32 (36, 40) sts and
work in ribbing of K 2, P 2 for 1¾, 2 inches increasing 2 sts for men’s
small size only in last row of ribbing. Change to No. 7 needles and work
in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) for 6 (6, 8) 8 (8, 10) rows. NEXT
ROW: Start Gussett. K 13 (15, 17) 16 (17, 19) sts, inc 1 st in each of
the next 2 sts, K next 13 (15,17) 16 (17, 19) sts. NEXT ROW: P across
row. NEXT ROW: K 13 (15, 17) 16 (17, 19) sts, inc in next st, K 2, inc
in next st, K to end of row. Continue in stockinette st increasing at
Gusset every other row until there are 40 (44, 50) 46 (50, 54) sts on
needle ending with a K row. NEXT ROW: P 14 (16, 18) 16 (18, 19) sts and
place on st holder, work next 12 (12, 14) 14 (14, 16) sts for thumb,
place remaining sts on 2nd st holder.

THUMB: Work in stockinette st until thumb measures ¼ inch less than
desired length ending with a P row. NEXT ROW: K 2 tog, K 2, repeat from
across row ending with K-O (K O, K 2 tog) K 2 tog (K 2 tog, K-O). NEXT
ROW: P across row. NEXT ROW: * K 2 tog, K 1, repeat from * across row
ending with K-O (K O, K 2) K 2 (K 2, K-O). Cut yarn and draw sts tog.
Fasten firmly. Pick up and P sts from 2nd st holder. NEXT ROW: K across
all sts including sts sts from 1st st holder. There are 28 (32, 36) 32
(36, 38) sts on needle. Work in stockinette st until mitten measures 1
inch less than desired length ending with a P row. NEXT ROW: * K 2 tog,
K 3, repeat from * across row ending with K 1 (K 2 tog, K 4) K 2 tog (K
4, K 1). NEXT ROW: P across row. NEXT ROW: * K 2 tog, K 2, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog (K 3, K 3) K 3 (K 3, K 2 tog). NEXT ROW:
P across row. NEXT ROW: * K 2 tog, K 1, repeat from * across row ending
with K 2 (all sizes). Cut yarn leaving an 18 inch length. Thread yarn
into needle and draw sts tog. Fasten firmly. Sew thumb and side seam.

RIGHT MITTEN: Work same as left mitten.

    [Illustration: {knitter}]




                    FOR THE YEARLING ... the sweater


                        SIZE: 6 months to 1 year

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” ORLON or “DAWN” MEDIUM WEIGHT POMPADOUR
  5—1 ounce skeins Baby Pink
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  2 Yds. ¼ inch Ribbon for booties and mittens
  3¼ yards ¾ inch Ribbon for hat and sweater

GAUGE: 7 sts = 1 inch


                                SWEATER

Working Back and Fronts at one time cast on 155 sts. 1st ROW: K 1, * P
1, K 1, repeat from * across. 2nd ROW: K 1, * P 1, K 1, repeat from *
across (seed st). Repeat last 2 rows 3 times. 9th ROW: K 1, P 1 across 6
sts, K to within 6 sts, P 1, K 1 across last 6 sts (the 6 sts are front
borders). 10th ROW: K 1, P 1 across 6 sts, P to within 6 sts, P 1, K 1
across last 6 sts. Repeat last 2 rows 3 times. Repeat from 1st row
twice. NEXT 8 ROWS: Work in seed st. NEXT 2 ROWS: Repeat 9th and 10th
rows. DIVIDE for FRONTS and BACK in next row.

RIGHT FRONT: Work 6 sts in seed st, K 33, place these sts on st holder,
bind off 3 sts for Armhole, K across 74 sts for BACK (this includes 1 st
left on needle from armhole bind off), place remaining 39 sts on stitch
holder for LEFT FRONT.

BACK: Working in seed st and stockinette stripe pattern as established
bind off 3 sts at beg of next row; then dec 1 st each side every other
row twice. Work even until armholes measure 4 inches.

SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 11 sts at beg of next 4 rows; bind off
remaining sts.

LEFT FRONT: Sl sts from st holder; bind off 3 sts at armhole. Continue
in stripes as established dec 1 st at armhole edge every other row
twice. Work even until armhole measures 3 inches ending at front edge.
SHAPE NECK: Bind off 10 sts at beg of next row; then dec 1 st at neck
edge every other row twice. Work even until armhole measures same as
back armhole. SHAPE SHOULDER: Work same as back shoulder.

RIGHT FRONT: Sl sts from st holder onto needle and complete to
correspond to left front reversing shaping.

SLEEVES: Cast on 41 sts. Work 8 rows in seed st. Working remainder of
sleeve in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) inc 1 st at beg and end of
next row. Then inc 1 st each side every inch 5 times. Work even until
sleeve measures 6¾ inches.

SHAPE CAP: Bind off 3 sts at beg of next 2 rows; then bind off 2 sts at
beg of every row until 31 sts remain. Bind off remaining sts.

FINISHING: Sew shoulder and sleeve seams. Sew sleeves in position.

NECK EDGE: With right side facing, starting at right front pick up 69
sts all around neck. Work in seed st for ¾ inch; then in K 1, P 1
ribbing for ¾ inch. Bind off in ribbing. Turn ribbing to inside and tack
in place. Finish with ribbon ties and rosettes as illustrated.




              ... and easy to make hat booties and mittens


    [Illustration: Baby set]


                                Booties

Cast on 37 sts. Work in seed st for 8 rows. Starting with a P row, work
9 rows in stockinette st. NEXT ROW: Work beading; K 1, * Y O, K 2 tog,
repeat from * across row. NEXT ROW: P. NEXT ROW: K 24, sl remaining 13
sts to st holder, turn, P 11, sl remaining 13 sts to st holder. Work
back and forth in stockinette st for 2 inches on 11 sts for instep,
ending with a K row. Pick up 10 sts on side of instep, K across 13 sts
from st holder; turn, P across all sts picking up 10 sts on opposite
side of instep, P across 13 sts from st holder (57 sts on needle). Work
in stockinette st for 1 inch. NEXT ROW: K 2 tog, K 22, K 2 tog, K 5, sl
1, K 1, p.s.s.o., K 22, K 2 tog. NEXT ROW: P across dec 1 st at each end
of row. NEXT ROW: K 2 tog, K 19, K 2 tog, K 5, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., K
19, K 2 tog. NEXT ROW: P across dec 1 st at each end of row. NEXT ROW: K
2 tog, K 19, K 2 tog, K 5, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., K 19, K 2 tog. NEXT ROW:
P across dec 1 st at each end of row. Bind off. Sew sole and back seam.
Lace ribbon through beading.


                                Mittens

Cast on 41 sts. Work in seed st for 8 rows. NEXT ROW: P across. NEXT
ROW: Work beading same as booties. Work in stockinette until mitten
measures 3¾ inches from beg ending with a P row. NEXT ROW: K 1, * K 2
tog, repeat from * across row. NEXT ROW: P across. Repeat last 2 rows
once, cut yarn leaving an 8 inch length. Thread yarn into needle and
draw through remaining sts. Fasten securely and sew seam. Lace ribbon
through beading.


                                  Hat

Cast on 85 sts. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 1½ inches. Then work in
seed st for 1½ inches. * Work 8 rows stockinette. Work 8 rows seed st.
Repeat from * twice, cut yarn leaving about a 10 inch length. Thread
into needle and draw yarn through all sts. Sew back seam. Turn ribbing
to inside of hat and sew in position. POMPON: Wind yarn 100 times over a
2 inch cardboard. Slip off cardboard. Tie in center and cut each end.
Attach pompon to top of hat. Finish with rosettes and ribbon as
illustrated.

    [Illustration: {cap}]

    [Illustration: {booties}]

    [Illustration: {mittens}]

    [Illustration: {playing baby}]




                          HAPPY SWEATER DATES


                              HIS SLIPOVER
                          Sizes: 40, 42 and 44

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED 6 (6, 7) 4 ounce
          skeins Cinnamon or Red
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 and No. 10 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL
          RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.

GAUGE for No. 10 Needles: 9 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for size 40. Changes for sizes 42 and 44 are given
in parentheses.

BACK: On No. 8 needles cast on 92 (96, 100) sts. Work in K 2, P 2
ribbing for 1½ inches inc 1 st on last row of ribbing (all sizes).
Change to No. 10 needles. START PATTERN: 1st ROW: K across row. 2nd ROW:
K 1, * yarn to front, sl 1, yarn to back, K 1, repeat from * across row.
Repeat 1st and 2nd rows 3 times. 9th ROW: K across row. 10th ROW: K 2, *
yarn to front, sl 1, yarn to back, K 1, repeat from * across row ending
last repeat with K 2. Repeat 9th and 10th rows 3 times. Repeat from 1st
pattern row until back measures 15 (15½, 16) inches from beg. SHAPE
ARMHOLES: Bind off 5 sts at beg of next 2 rows (all sizes); then dec 1
st at each end every other row 3 times. Work even until armholes measure
9 (9½, 10) inches.

SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 8 sts at beg of next 4 rows (all sizes). NEXT
ROW: NECK FACING: P across row. Then work in stockinette st (P 1 row, K
1 row) for 5 rows inc 1 st at beg and end of every row. Bind off.

FRONT: Work same as back.

SLEEVES: On No. 8 needles cast on 48 (50, 52) sts and work in K 2, P 2
ribbing (all sizes) for 1½ inches inc 1 st in last row of ribbing (all
sizes). Change to No. 10 needles and keeping pattern as established inc
1 st at beg and end of every 10th row until there are 71 (73, 75) sts on
needle. Work even until sleeve measures 19 (19¼, 19½) inches from beg or
length desired to underarm. SHAPE SLEEVE: Bind off 5 sts at beg of next
2 rows; then dec 1 st at beg and end of every other row until there are
33 (33, 35) sts; then bind off 3 sts at beg of next 4 rows. Bind off
remaining sts.

FINISHING: Block each section. Sew shoulder, side and sleeve seams. Sew
sleeves in position. Fold neck facing to inside of sweater and tack in
position.


                               HER RAGLAN
                     Sizes: Small, Medium and Large

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED 5 (5, 6) 4 ounce
          skeins Watermelon
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  1 Set of Double Pointed Knitting Needles No. 8.

GAUGE: 9 sts = 2 inches;
6 rows = 1 inch

Directions are given for small size. Changes for medium and large sizes
given in parentheses.

BACK: Cast on 76 (80, 84) sts. 1st and 2nd ROWS: K 2, P 2 across each
row. 3rd and 4th ROWS: P 2, K 2 across each row. Repeat last 4 rows for
12 (12½, 13) inches or length desired to underarm. SHAPE RAGLAN: Dec 1
st at beg of each row until 24 sts remain (all sizes), slip 24 sts to st
holder.

FRONT: Work same as back.

SLEEVES: Cast on 32 (36, 40) sts. Work in pattern for 3 inches inc 1 st
each side every inch 13 times working inc sts into established pattern,
58 (62, 66) sts. Work even until sleeve measures 17 inches or length
desired to underarm. SHAPE RAGLAN: Work same as back until 8 sts remain.
Work 1 row even (all sizes). Sl 8 sts to st holder.

FINISHING: Steam each section lightly. Sew side and sleeve seams. Sew
sleeves in position. Dividing sts evenly, sl all sts from stitch holders
to 3 double pointed needles and work in pattern for 2 inches; then K
each row for 2 inches for neck facing. Bind off loosely. Turn neck
facing to inside and sew in place.

    [Illustration: ]


                             BASIC CROCHET

SINGLE CROCHET: (s c) Insert hook in row or st, pick up yarn, pull
through, yarn over and pull through the 2 loops on hook.

    [Illustration: ]

SLIP STITCH: (sl st) Insert hook in st, pick up yarn and pull through
loop on hook.

    [Illustration: ]




                           CLAM DIGGERS SHELL


    [Illustration: ]


                      Sizes: Small, Medium, Large

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
  3 (3, 4) 4 ounce skeins Canary
  1—4 ounce skein Tangerine
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 9 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size H

GAUGE: 9 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for small size. Changes for medium and large sizes
are given in parentheses.

BACK: With Canary (Main Color) cast on 73 (77, 81) sts. 1st ROW: P
across row. 2nd ROW: K across row, drop MC. 3rd and 4th ROWS: With
Tangerine (Contrasting Color) K across each row, drop CC. 5th ROW: With
MC, K 1, * yarn to back sl 1 as if to P, K 1, repeat from * across row.
6th ROW: K 1, * yarn to front, sl 1 as if to P, K 1 repeat from * across
row, drop MC. 7th and 8th ROWS: With CC K across each row, drop CC. 9th
ROW: With MC K across row. 10th ROW: P across row, drop MC. 11th and
12th ROWS: With CC K across each row, drop CC. 13th ROW: With MC K
across row. 14th ROW: P across row, drop MC. 15th and 16th ROWS: With CC
K across each row, drop CC. 17th ROW: With MC repeat 5th row. 18th ROW:
Repeat 6th row. 19th and 20th ROWS: With CC K across each row, drop CC.
21st ROW: With MC K across row. 22nd ROW: P across row. With MC repeat
from 19th to 22nd rows for pattern. Work even in pattern until back
measures 13½ inches from beg or desired length to underarm. SHAPE
ARMHOLES: Bind off 3 (4, 5) sts at beg of next 2 rows; then dec 1 st at
each end every other row 4 times. Work even on 59 (61, 63) sts until
armholes measure 7 (7¼, 7½) inches from 1st bind off. Work across 12
(13, 14) sts, bind off next 35 sts for back of neck, work across
remaining sts. NEXT ROW: Tie in another skein of yarn and working both
sides at same time dec 1 st at each side of neck edge. NEXT ROW: Work
even. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st at each side of neck edge. NEXT 2 ROWS. SHAPE
SHOULDERS: Bind off 5 (5, 6) sts at beg of each row, bind off 5 (6, 6)
sts at beg of next 2 rows.

FRONT: Work same as back to underarm, Shape Armholes same as back. Work
even until armholes measure 4½ (4¾, 5) inches.

SHAPE NECK: Work across 17 (18, 19) sts, bind off next 25 sts, work
across remaining sts. NEXT ROW: Tie in another skein of yarn and working
both sides at same time dec 1 st at each side of neck edge, then dec 1
st at each side of neck edge every other row 6 more times. Work even
until armholes measure same as back. Shape Shoulders same as back.

FINISHING: Block each section. Sew shoulder and side seams matching
patterns. NECK EDGE: Attach MC at left shoulder and work a row of s c
all around neck edge working 1 s c in every other row on sides, 1 s c in
each bound off st across front and back, join, cut MC. Attach CC and
work 1 s c in each st, join, cut yarn. ARMHOLE EDGE: Attach MC at
underarm and work 1 s c in each bound off st at underarm and 1 s c in
every other row around armhole, join, cut yarn. NEXT ROW: Attach CC and
work 1 s c in each s c, join, cut yarn.




                             POM PON PONCHO


    [Illustration: ]


                        Size: One size fits all

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
  2—4 ounce Skeins White
  1—4 ounce Skein each Olive Green, Canary and Watermelon.
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size G

GAUGE: 9 sts = 2 inches

With Olive Green cast on 63 sts. 1st ROW: K. 2nd ROW: P. 3rd ROW: K,
drop Olive Green. 4th ROW: With White K. 5th ROW: P. 6th ROW: K. 7th
ROW: P, drop White. 8th ROW: With Watermelon K. 9th ROW: K. 10th ROW: P.
11th ROW: K, drop Watermelon. 12th ROW: With White K. 13th ROW: P. 14th
ROW: K. 15th ROW: P, drop White. 16th ROW: With Canary K. 17th ROW: K.
18th ROW: P. 19th ROW: K, drop Canary. 20th ROW: With White K. 21st ROW:
P. 22nd ROW: K. 23rd ROW: P, drop White. 24th ROW: With Olive Green K.
Repeat from 1st row until there are 28 colored stripes (10 Olive Green).
Bind off.

Work a 2nd section in same manner.

FINISHING: Working down 1 long side attach White in 1st st of Olive
Green stripe; with crochet hook work 4 s c in each White stripe down
side skipping all colored stripes to corner working the s c over all
ends of carried colors. Working across short end, work 1 s c in each st,
cut yarn. Complete other section in same manner. Block to measure 14 ×
28 inches.

Sew one short unfinished end to one long unfinished side sewing to
within the center of 14th White stripe. Finish other side in same
manner. This leaves 14 stripes on each section free for neck opening.
Attach White at neck opening and work 4 s c over each White stripe,
join. NEXT ROW: Work a sl st in each st, join cut yarn. With White work
an 18 inch ch. Attach to center of neck. Finish ends with 3 pompons as
illustrated.

POMPONS: Wind yarn 14 times over 2 legs of a chair or any open flat
surface (28 strands). Tie with a 6 inch strand at 1¼ inch intervals, cut
between ties. Attach a pompon of matching color to each stripe
alternating colors across each Olive Green stripe.




                            PRETEEN SLIPOVER


    [Illustration: ]


                       Sizes 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED 2 (3, 3, 3, 3, 4) 4
          ounce skeins Canary
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW.

GAUGE: 5 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for size 4. Changes for sizes 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14
are given in parentheses.

BACK: Cast on 53 (59, 65, 71, 77, 83) sts. Work in seed st for 1 inch
(seed st: * K 1, P 1, repeat from * across row ending with K 1). START
PATTERN as follows: 1st ROW: K 5, * P 1, K 5, repeat from * across row.
2nd ROW: P 5, * K 1, P 5, repeat from * across row. 3rd ROW: K 3, * K 2
tog, Y O, P 1, Y O, K 2 tog through back of sts, K 1, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 more sts. 4th ROW: P 5, * K 1, P 5, repeat
from across row. Repeat 3rd and 4th rows for pattern. Work even in
pattern until work measures 9 (10, 11, 11½, 12, 12½) inches from beg.
SHAPE ARMHOLES: Next 2 ROWS: Bind off 6 sts at beg of each row (all
sizes) Work even in pattern until armhole measures 4½ (5, 5½, 6, 7, 7)
inches. SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 6 sts at beg of next 4 rows (all
sizes), bind off remaining 17 (23, 29, 35, 41, 47) sts.

FRONT: Work same as back.

SLEEVES: Cast on 31 (31, 37, 43, 49, 49) sts. Work in seed st pattern
for 1 inch inc 10 sts on last row (all sizes). Work even in pattern
until sleeves measure 12 (12½, 13½, 14½, 16, 16) inches from beg, bind
off all sts.

FINISHING: Block each section. Sew one shoulder seam. With wrong side of
work facing, pick up and K each st at neck edge across front and back.
Work in seed st pattern for 1 inch (all sizes), bind off in pattern. Sew
opposite shoulder and side of collar. Sew side seams. Sew sleeve seams
sewing seams to within 1 inch less than length at armhole edge. Sew
sleeves in position sewing the 1 inch at underarm to bound off sts.

    [Illustration: {skein of yarn}]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text; all of page 31 appears out of sequence.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Begin to Knit, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEGIN TO KNIT ***

***** This file should be named 61105-0.txt or 61105-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/1/0/61105/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

